Title:  I Blame Bounces For The Delay

I was going to release Lamson 0.9.6 much earlier than this, but as I worked on
the bounce detection feature, I realized that if I just wrote that and a few
other cleanups and features, I'd actually have a *1.0pre1* candidate on my
hands instead of a 0.9.6 release.

Instead of releasing 0.9.6, I continued to work on "librelist.com":http://librelist.com/
and got the software smart as hell.  While working on librelist.com I managed
to improve Lamson to the point where I'll be comfortable releasing a 1.0pre1
tomorrow.

h2. What's librelist.com?

If you go "librelist.com":http://librelist.com/ you can read about it, although
the site is still rough and being written.  It actually does function however,
including basic archives.

For people too lazy to click on the link:  librelist.com is just a free mailing
list service for open source projects, similar to freenode.org with IRC.
The primary purpose is to give open source projects a mailing list they can use that has:

* The code available (it's in the Lamson source).
* No logins, signups, bundled services, captchas, tracking cookies, or other crap getting in your way.
* No ads on your emails, ever.
* Full access to your archives using rsync.
* Easy and smart signup process.
* Spam blocking and bounce protection galore (although spam is off right now).

h2. Try The Lists

I'll have an announcement tomorrow laying out the big things you'll get, but for now
if you want to track Lamson and participate, as well as test the librelist.com
code, then try subscribing to "lamson@librelist.com":mailto:lamson@librelist.com
and saying hello.

If you're interested in librelist.com development, then subscribe to "meta@librelist.com":mailto:meta@librelist.com
and I'll be sending out announcements related to librelist there.

h2. The Lamson 1.0pre1 Plan

I haven't needed to touch Lamson much over the last few days, apart from some surgery
on the Python Maildir class to add a safety feature.  The code currently in bzr is
also very stable and has been sped up a bit.  I'm looking to basically spend tomorrow
auditing the code and writing docs with the goal of pushing out a release in the evening.

The goal then will be to make it solid and not add many more features so that I can get a 1.0
release out for real by the end of July.

See you tomorrow!

